[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neo.com
I'm your host Dylan Grabowski in this
episode of the smart economy podcast I
sat down and spoke with Andreas Breen
the founder of sideshift a non-custodial
exchange dedicated to seamless
onboarding and user privacy in this
episode we spoke about discovering
Bitcoin in 2011 building an exchange in
the early 2010s building a blockchain
company to survive through Bull and be
Cycles the recent success the sideshift
team has seen in user growth and volume
activity and so much more just a
reminder nothing said in this episode is
a solicitation to buy or sell any token
and nothing should be taken as Financial
advice the host or guests May hold
tokens discussed in any given episode
and you can see our disclaimer on
neo.com with all that said I really
enjoyed this conversation with Andreas
and I hope you enjoy it too hey everyone
what's going on Welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're joined by
Andreas Breen the founder of sides shift
a non-custodial exchange that supports
more than 100 cryptocurrencies Andreas
I'm really psyched to have you join the
pod today you've got quite a tenure in
the cryptocurrency space uh how are you
doing man I'm I'm really happy to be
here I um I was this thinking about it
now have you have you ever recorded a
podcast while Bitcoin is at the alltime
high you know I don't think I've been
recording while we were kind of going up
right now so for posterity just so folks
know it's um March 13 2024 and we're
currently in price Discovery so that's
quite
nice no that is um yeah I think that's
that's the first one for me as well yeah
so let's kind of well before we jump
into that I kind of want to just like
let's just rip off the Band-Aid and kind
of highlight your experience so I want
to jump into the conversation before we
learn a little bit about you and where
you come from I just want to hear your
perspective on exchanges so in what ways
have exchanges gotten better or worse in
the past 10 years wow that is yeah that
is a that is a good question because I
have to uh do some do some reflecting
now um I mean the we can we can start in
the part that is the same uh so what is
the same is that the largest exchange
which is today uh binance is very very
similar to what you used to be the first
and largest exchange which was called
empty gogs and uh the way they are the
same is that um the exchange for
performs a lot of functions so in try
all the functions that the exchanges
perform they've been split up into many
many many parts over the um over the
years I think mostly for uh just cons
for the consumer protection um for um
for this risk management and I get some
specialization as well and I mean the
main part is uh custody which is whoever
is like actually holding the assert uh
and then we have the clearing which is
when the uh the actual trade happen PL
um and then they I mean they split up
the functions even further so deposit
and withdrawals are handled by sub and
so uh but in in crypto we still have it
today that everything is is done on like
one website um by this company and I
mean they've H people with more
experience today but it's still the same
as empty the CL coded the thing for
himself right made everything himself
and yeah it's hard to do something when
you're doing it the first time so yeah
binance have hired a ton of
professionals by now but like uh most
other the exchanges started out being
written by pretty inexperienced people
so what is the same is that the exchange
uh performs a lot of functions uh they
do very aggressive marketing they
probably Market make on their own
exchange uh there's a lot of trading
against your customers when information
and latency uh they don't have very
little transparency and um yeah I mean
we know from uh the the previous uh the
previous V exchange was FTX and it blew
up in a matter of days without anybody
suspecting anything so on on that front
everything is very similar there's just
uh it's faster and there's more uh more
tickers what about how um actually we'll
we'll delve into this when we when we
when we jump into Sid shift so um I
appreciate that response and um it's
kind of in technology things every 10
years you can see a noticeable
difference and to see kind of the
underlying kind of uh model that
centralized exchanges operate today and
how they're not much different than what
carelis was doing with mount goau back
in
204 um it's it's it's broken in some way
because a it it works but B um it
doesn't mean that it works right right
so I'm excited to kind of delve into the
lessons that you've learned over your
tenure and how those applied to
sideshift so let's like take a step back
then because I want to give the
listeners a little bit of context for
the the skill and the depth of of
knowledge and expertise you bring to
what you're building today so like long
story short you're a Bitcoin OG um can
you share a little bit about the first
time you heard about Bitcoin in
2011 and what were kind of your initial
thoughts did you buy in immediately um
was there a little bit of skepticism uh
just kind of can you walk us down that
path 13 years ago now wow when you when
you say it's been that long it it sounds
kind of strange even to me uh yeah uh
yeah bit Bitcoin is really really
special it's really special because at
the end of the day it's a piece of
software so when I first um when I first
discovered Bitcoin which would have been
yeah I would say like 2011 it's what's
so special is that you could go on you
could go on the site uh which is uh
bitcoin.org and you can download the pza
software and run it on your computer it
was just called pza software which is
called Bitcoin and when we started up
you know it looked like almost like a
peer-to-peer sharing app um like like a
por or something like this uh when you
open it up but very quickly at least
back then it would uh say say that it's
synchronizing with the networ which
today we know is that it's downloading
the the blockchain to your computer and
and it was so this this P was so
deceivingly simple because it would just
have basically a a window with three
tabs uh one was called overview
transactions and that was just a list of
what you sent the Bitcoins that You'
sent and received which would of course
be empty when you started out and then
one tab was called receive and it would
show your Bitcoin address and one tab
was called send so you put in an address
and then amount to click Send so uh at
least for me as soon as I tried this I
was I was very surprised how easy was
and I was just thinking it's like wait
if if uh sending and receiving money in
this is real money and I can just put in
any address that that means I can send
money to anyone anywhere in the world I
don't even need to know their name uh
and of course I discovered they don't
even have to have their computer on and
there's just no limits it's like that is
the opposite of PayPal is the opposite
of Western Union of a bank uh of all of
the systems so uh I mean the the
Bitcoins themselves were not worth that
much at the time but the technology was
the same so uh for me it clicked really
really uh fast just because of the
Simplicity yeah and were you I I that's
kind of what made me really appreciate
Bitcoin initially up front was uh I
think it's something like onethird of
the world is unbanked and if you have
access to a cell phone and the internet
maybe not when you first got into
Bitcoin with cell phones but today uh
2017 with cell and in 2017 when I first
kind of got into the space if you had
access to a cell phone and internet you
could move this money um internationally
cross border without any permission and
way cheaper than Western Union um I live
in the states and oftentimes we'll have
folks from South America migrate up to
the US to work here often lowp paying
jobs and so they'll send back uh1 $200
$300 home to family and Western Union
will eat anywhere between $25 to $50 in
fees and if you're sending back $200
this is a quarter of of what you've
earned and what you're sending back to
family so that's a really kind of
empowering way that I connected with
Bitcoin um which for me also was the
peer-to-peer Revolution um I'm a child
of the time when Napster was uh born
into
existence I didn't want to say Napster
but okay yeah uh I would that's actually
be was going to make for money yeah I
mean um I've said it before on the Pod
uh the the moment of downloading that
first song Especially song my parents
didn't want me to listen to was so
empowering and it was enabled by this
peer-to-peer Revolution right there were
hundreds of people that were uploading
portions of the song and I could
download Those portions onto my computer
into one whole song so that kind of um
it's kind of great to hear that I'm sure
that over the years the UI just kind of
got and the ux just got way better um
compared to your first time ever
downloading that Bitcoin client and
running it on your computer um so you
kind of bought into the vision of being
able to send money to somebody without
their computer being on in another part
of the world without knowing who they
are despite the fact that Bitcoin was
less than 25 cents at the time um so
about two years later you started
building in the space in 2013 you built
an exchange called just coin from the
ground up so what were you thinking in
2013 like hey maybe I should build an
exchange from my time looking back in
the history of Bitcoin and what was
going on I think around that time the
only other coins that could be traded
were these colored coins that were built
on top of Bitcoin um I think maybe even
ethereum's white paper had just come out
or hadn't even been
uh written by 2013 so can you just share
a little bit about what it was like uh
the thought process for wanting to build
just coin and maybe what that experience
was like what were people trading what
did your customers want at the time
anything you can kind of relive from the
just coin days I would love to hear more
about yeah that's um uh yeah those are
very fun memories um so I'm the
programmer I've been I've been
programming since ours
since according to my dad since I was 13
years old so as soon as I mean as soon
as I got the Bitcoin program running on
my computer first thing I thought was
like okay how do I automate this how do
I make a program that can send and
receive Bitcoins was if that was
basically the first thing I thought um
so and I didn't figure that out but the
question is if I can automate sending
and receiving Bitcoins then with another
program then what will this other
program do and the uh the only thing
that people were were really doing back
then was uh making casinos and making
exchanges uh and I I guess in some sense
they are very similar at least today so
um yeah so that's what I did and I
figured this is this is very classic uh
where ignorance is um is bliss because I
thought uh making an exchange how
difficult could that possibly be and and
the answer is uh it is very difficult
actually to make an exchange but so
that's the first thing I did I um I did
this I did it as a hobby project and I
just wanted uh to make a website that
for some reason needed to automate
sending and receiving Bitcoins so yeah I
made um I made just coin as a as a hobby
project just for me to learn more about
Bitcoin and uh looking back the coins
available would have been Bitcoin
Litecoin and then uh Ripple launched at
some point ethereum was still some ways
away so um I I don't um mean to cut you
off but I kind of I hope that this kind
of adds into your answer what was the
what was the user base like um you know
in 2013 I doubt there are more than a
100,000 Bitcoin users worldwide uh many
folks might have been Cypher punks or uh
not really interested in trading just
kind of like figuring out how to how to
acquire Bitcoin because it's sounded
quite difficult storing it sounded quite
difficult there weren't these mobile
apps and wallets and things like that so
how did that kind of uh play into when
you built just coin to what your users
uh The Exchange users uh were asking for
of the custodial platform was it
custodial yes at um at the time I think
all uh platforms were custodial uh and a
non-custodial trade uh back then was
done over the counter which means ascr
and private messaging and so on yeah I
mean like you said there were so few
people using Bitcoin to C you back then
that um the the users were anyone I
could find and convince and and we're
we're talking just we're we're talking
uh friends we're talking bartenders
we're talking anybody that would listen
um to get to get the test this thing and
then like you said people people weren't
interested in trading so much and if all
you're offering is Bitcoin Litecoin and
and xrp which is Ripple it's it's kind
of hard to gain users but uh there
wasn't Advantage at the time which is
there were so few exchanges and so few
people and everybody everyone was
willing to try just anything so if you
went on a Bitcoin uh discussion forum
and you posted hey I made this thing
it's an exchange uh will he go try it
very large amount of people would go
register on your website and send you
Bitcoins just to try it out for no other
reason than um they just love to try
everything so so the initial users I
think they were just trying anything
they could find that had something to do
with Bitcoin so I was really lucky in
that sence and you kind of you're you
mentioned earlier that you're developer
at heart you know your dad said you've
been coding since you were 13 um so
something that kind of like stands out
from these days that today would just be
something that would be a part of every
wallet experience or exchange experience
you built um and I'm just going to read
uh the quote the first JavaScript
hierarchical deterministic Bitcoin
wallet so can you just share why this
was such a novel solution for the time
is this kind of one of the first
JavaScript uh written wallets that was
established yeah that's that's an
interesting one so I I will not so we
say HD wallet for uh for short and um
and an HD wallet or hierarchical
deterministic wallet is is something we
all know today because if when you have
uh 12 seed wordss that from those seed
wordss uh you can generate any number of
receiving addresses that you that you
would like and that's really good
because that means you can give a
different receiving address to each
person or is going to be sending you
money so I would have to look up who
invented the uh the concept of the HD
wallet which is a cryptographic
invention but I will was uh I was uh
pretty active in the developer community
in in making the application for this
which is which means that you can put it
into into software for people to use
including wallets so uh that was my
first open open source work for Bitcoin
was uh was an implementation of this
extremely mathematical and and
cryptography based paper uh that was
published for for Bitcoin and it uh it
involved a lot of trial and error not
that strong at math
um in uh at least in my formal education
but it was it was very exciting to be
part of um a small team who just
collaborated using uh using open source
on GitHub and that some of this code or
I believe it's still in news today yeah
I'm just really curious to hear your
perspective on the pace of Bitcoin core
development um I think it's a feature
not a bug that it takes so long for
things to get passed through if we're
and and today with inflation rates and
with a lot of uh Global uncertainty with
various different jurisdictions and
countries adopting Bitcoin it is not
kind it's not crazy to say that someday
Bitcoin might be a settlement layer for
the rest of the world so for bitcoin's
core development to take so long um and
make sure that it's done right I think
as a feature but I'm just curious to
hear your perspective what was the pace
of Bitcoin development like when you
were building um these this HD wallet
and you were contributing to bitcoin
ecosystem code maybe not core code um
what was what's the differences between
the pace back then and the pace today so
the the the pace back there was also
pretty slow and and they were back then
uh the developers seem to often be
focused on dealing with emergencies
because Bitcoin was Bitcoin was gaming
it was gaming users Andy so fast that
all kinds of issues arose like it would
get very slow to syn and it would be DDS
gdos attacks meaning spam
transactions from people we don't know
their intentions and all this stuff so
so most of the development I remember
from from back in the day was actually
the the core devs responding to uh to
real emergencies so I think we should be
very thankful because we don't hear a
lot about emergencies anymore so
I think they they've done a amazing job
and what's cool is the people I would
ask for help uh I would say 12 plus
years ago they're still around
developing on bitcoin you can go and
talk to them on um you go talk to them
online uh and they've um yeah they've
just stuck with it some of these uh I
have to give the shout out to Luke daser
who um was answering my questions back
time it was still very active in bit
development but for the yeah you were
saying with uh I mean you said inflation
and the P of development and this I
guess maybe everybody goes through this
phase but uh doing what we today call
the block size Wars I thought we should
just uh just increase the block size
make everything faster all of this stuff
and but like you said today uh today I
think we ended up with the right thing
which is much more conservative and I
was hoping for you know programers would
love to change stuff uh but I think the
direction midco has taken out very very
conservative and it might end up with
pretty high fees but uh then we'll just
have to use it as a settlement layer put
some l2s on top I think that's a really
really good direction and it's not
because I'm it's not because I'm scared
that we're going to lose what we have
it's just like you said I think I think
the slow development it's a feature and
decentralized consensus is extremely
difficult and it's something that people
have never done before so there's no
there's no rules to this we don't know
we're figuring out the rules as we go so
yeah I'm going slowly I think it's been
working out and we may as well continue
did you did you have because you
mentioned Luke who is by all definitions
today a quote unquote Bitcoin Maxi so
what was your path with um embracing
different decentralized networks you
know when just coin launched you said
there was only Litecoin and only Ripple
to trade against with Bitcoin so were
you kind of always embracing different
different decentralized uh blockchains
and cryptocurrencies did you have to
kind of go through this thought process
of wanting larger blocks and then
embracing what Bitcoin cash could be and
maybe that expanded your mind or were
you always kind of open-minded for other
uh blockchain projects Beyond uh what
Bitcoin was back in the day I've always
been I've always been very open-minded
with this and the thing is uh back in
the day there there there was no such
term as a Bitcoin Maxi there was no term
as a uh crypto either Bitcoins and
altcoins but uh as far as I remember if
you were very open to all the different
ones you would yes you would have very
exceptional people like luk Dash who is
an extremely conservative type in his in
his life in general so he he probably
never liked any old coins but I was
always very open-minded to it uh it
wasn't clear to me for example what
Litecoin would do but it's all right
it's a cute experiment and and Then
followed Ripple and then ethereum and
everything and i' uh I've always been
very open to that I think it's the
Innovation with heing is awesome I mean
today we have uh today we even have like
salana which has a ridiculous throughput
like how fast it can push through the
transactions uh which of course uh
salana has um it has to sacrifice some
things right to get that thing but just
looking at it it's pretty awesome I
never thought that would uh honestly I
never thought that would exist yeah I
was talking with a friend the other day
who just explores building in different
ecosystems and he was telling me just
how insane it is to be able to plug into
salana and be able to build something
like an nft project how insanely fast it
is um I'm sure anyone listening to this
can just do a quick Google search and
find all the things that are bad about
salana so if you want to hear the other
side of the argument go feel free to do
that uh but we've had the the salono
foundation as a previous guest on the
Pod so um we'll just let folks do their
own
research yeah those are great guys and
you I mentioned earlier in the podcast
you you just Dro like Cosmos and again
it's something I don't have a lot of
experience with but people are building
on it um and it has very novel features
I know some of the chams are quick so i'
I've always been open to this and we
should always continue to experiment
yeah I agree all right so um this is
super awesome digging in to where we
were 10 years ago um can you just walk
us through the process of what it was
like selling just coin who who bought it
um who was interested in buying this
exchange and is to the best of your
knowledge is any of that code still
living in some exchange somewhere today
the sale of Des coin happened pretty
rapidly I decided with my with my cold
founder that um that having an exchange
where you had stat on Exchange is simply
not what we wanted to do because you
know in in as a Founder in your mind
you're thinking I'm going to make it
easier for people to buy Bitcoin uh with
see out so uh so your focus would
actually be uh
90% Bitcoin and then the Fiat is just
like the 100 it's it's just like you
just got to deal what to make it happen
but this is not the way the world works
because when you touch Fiat and you
touch Banks your business is now 90%
dealing with the bank and the regulators
and the the state in general and you
will just have no time left for dealing
with actual the crypto user experience
so we just decided we're not we're not
interesting in in dealing with the
transp part of it so yeah um we
announced we're going to Sur and a
gentleman named Brock Pierce called me
on Skype which is super random i' I've
never talked to this person before I to
look uh look his name up and he was very
kind by the way you said I heard you're
selling I want if you guys can keep
running it uh just let me know whatever
you need and stuff like this and and I
know the found of Kraken whose name is
Jess Powell I had actually emailed him
asking uh if he would like to buy it he
was my first choice uh he didn't respond
I later later learned that he didn't
respond because he was in Japan helping
out uh the court in Japan deal with the
mt's bankruptcy at the same time so uh
so we uh I got in contact with some guys
at a company in Hong Kong called anx I
believe their name are DAV and Hugh
they're still in the business they
running OTC uh desk in much more called
OSL so that was super smooth uh sold it
for uh for Bitcoin they
continued using much of the brand some
of the code and uh yes and that was a
and again we settled the whole thing in
in BTC it's just uh it's so easy I don't
I've never I've never sold company for
for a bank transfer before but I cannot
even imagine what's the i b that must be
I love the the frontier that we operate
in you've you've never sold a company
for Fiat I love it
um you kind of touched on this and so um
you you built this company you're you're
self-made entrepreneur now um and then
in 2016 you actually joined Kraken as a
software engineer um did you move to the
Bay Area to to work at Kraken yeah that
was that was an amazing experience so so
like I said JY Powell he wasn't
available uh so he contacted me right
after the contct had been sold and was
like what happened is said can I can I
I'm interested and and I said I remember
exactly where I was and I said no it's
uh the deal's already closed he said
okay okay then how about will you and
your co-founder come um come working
cracking and I remember the whole the
first time I ever talked to Jesse on the
phone the conversation was 8 minutes and
after 8 minutes we went from hello to me
having signed on and decided I would
move from Europe to San Francisco to
work at King so he's um he's he's an
awesome guy and and very um very
inspiring guys for just that's cool so
we lived in the Bay Area for the same
time actually I was in Oakland from 2015
to 2018 oh wow and uh you said you got
into you got into crypto 2017
so did you so you experienc the the
Heyday of of the I Market while in San
Francisco or the Bay Area yeah and and
that's why I wanted to ask you because
um from what I can remember back in the
day there was some animosity towards
cryptocurrencies because the Bay Area is
Rife with all these quote unquote
traditional software companies and the
Ico model was completely flipping the
traditional VC model on its head so
there was some folks who you know you're
younger earlier Engineers who you know
went 3x on their Bitcoin purchases and
loved Bitcoin but then there were other
people who were working for Google and
Facebook for x amount of years who
didn't like this cryptocurrency stuff so
I actually remember being kind of Blown
Away that not every Tech bro was really
into crypto back then so I was just
curious if maybe you felt the same thing
uh or maybe not maybe you're going to
the Bitcoin meetups in San Francisco you
know you're hanging around Jesse who it
sounds like his Vibes were infectious
and he made you really excited to be
working at Kraken at that time so I'm
just curious if you kind of felt the
same um response towards Bitcoin and
cryptocurrencies that I did yeah I guess
I guess I was a bit of an outsider to
detecting the street in San Francisco
while I was there because everyone
everyone um I was hanging out with
everyone work in crypto like that's
that's all I knew and uh and if few and
a few friends I had who uh who did not
they didn't work in software so I I
didn't have much interaction with um
with engineers and the big companies
like over Facebook and all those but um
yeah now that they mention it I can see
it but that's just called being jealous
is because we're in the most incredible
uh industry and these people are selling
ads to teenagers it's it's not come
terrible that makes sense especially
when you're surrounding yourself with
the people who are building the future
of Finance um so you were with Kraken
for just around three years um I think
if if I'm able to piece together your
your resume um you were at Kraken and
then you left to launch sideshift but
before we start talking about sideshift
which is an incredible leadup this
conversation we've had def finally
getting to talk about your product um
what were what were kind of like the
main concerns at Kraken back in 2016 17
18 19 and just for reference I think a
lot of our listeners are American
European but for folks who aren't in
those regions Kraken is a large
centralized exchange that is essentially
competing with the likes of coinbase and
binance um also side note I've been
using Kraken for a long time so it's a
great exchange um you left you left the
company in good hands so with all that
said um 2016 to 29 19 that was your time
at at Kraken what were some of the
biggest issues that you were tackling
then what were some of the biggest
concerns that faced uh Kraken and maybe
even um the whole industry during your
tenure at that exchange yeah so um I
actually I actually worked at Kraken
from um I think I was there only 20 um
I'd say like 20 2015 16 something like
that okay so not even four years no not
even and um and
and and it's just funny because it's
madeit of contrast to what you're saying
because I was there when things were
most of the time I was a cracking things
were slow it was it was yeah it was
things were slow it was in beet Vibes we
were you know Kraken was Kraken was
looking to expand uh and had expanded
but it was there was very little volume
things were slow it was Bare market so I
mean I'm a sofware engineer I was
staring along I was working on uh on
adding new coins integrating stuff
that's so nice but uh but the general
vibe in crypto depends so much on the
market and especially in exchanges so I
I didn't I didn't experience the Mia uh
at all that I'm sure you did in in San
franisco back then I actually left
Kraken um I guess uh right before that
happened 2016 then so um excuse me for
the the Gap in following what your
professional career is what did you do
in 2017 and 2018 did you just kind of
ride the the YOLO games I mean this was
this was a speculative Mania and for
folks who were not around in 2017 people
were becoming overnight millionaires
because they were just building and and
growing their Bitcoin Holdings over the
years that they were just building these
tools and these ecosystems so that was
kind of the first time that mainstream
media jumped into cryptocurrencies and
all these different all coins and it was
insane I mean 2017 you you could make
you could say the government of China is
partnering with this coin and the coin
would pump 30% so maybe that's giving a
little bit of insight into what you were
doing between Kraken and sides shift but
maybe you could share with us a little
bit about how you spent your time during
those two years no this this some real
shlock Holm stuff I like it you're
you're very correct I I actually left I
actually did leave Kraken uh because my
Bitcoins had performed so well that I uh
it didn't make sense to work through
anymore this is actually true so I left
on really good terms and it's a it is a
funny conversation when you tell your
boss you're like hey um I it's it's time
for me to leave I made it so yes I so I
did I did actually have that
conversation with Jesse and it took took
really well I wonder how many
conversations he's had like that over
the years I I have some story about the
early employees since it's completely
ridiculous I I'm not going to share the
details you'll have to get in one the
podcast but um he has had that
conversation just a lot of times when
what um you you guessed very correctly
so so what I did I um I mean I'm I'm a
programmer that is what I do so I'm
always going to do that but uh yes I
left a position and I wanted to to
travel a bit more and the main thing I
want to do is and I at the time had been
involved in bit for so long uh but I'd
never basically never really gone to
conference or met any of the people I've
been talking to online because I've just
been sitting in front of computer
programming the whole time side decided
I'm I'm gonna get out there and and go
and meet with some of these people and
uh and I did and I met with a with a lot
of interesting people some I just been
talking with the lch for years so cool
um I love it you spend time to travel
you get to meet people I think what has
kept me in the space so I bought my
first Bitcoin in summer of 2017 and by a
year later I left a previous career that
I went to graduate school for so I could
go full-time into crypto and blockchain
so I got bit by the bug but I awes the
day I went full-time was a month before
the bottom of the 2019 bear so I was
like what am I doing with my life um you
know the ecosystem I went to cover my
Holdings went minus 90% so I was um
really had to like look in the mirror
and and see if I was convicted or not um
so you do all this traveling you have
all these conversations I would imagine
because you're a builder you're a
software engineer you like to build you
probably got bored of traveling and just
living off of your crypto portfolio so
you wanted to build something and um in
March of 2019 you launched sides shift
we're finally getting to sideshift 20
through the conversation um so you know
you launched this new exchange during a
bar Market um why did you want to launch
a new exchange and and why in 2019 did
it finally make sense to start building
sides shift yeah uh like you said I mean
I always like to build during the bare
Market it's you know that's what you do
right so so I um so the name sideshift
uh comes from two words one is side as
in side chain and the other one is shift
which is often used as a synonym for
swapping or trading so side shift was um
s shift is a it's just it's a demo that
I made to show um to show how users can
quickly move assets between the
different um between a main chain and a
layer two or back uh and at the time
there was uh no such thing so I built
this for a project and still in devel M
called drivechain which is a layer two
for Bitcoin so yeah STI was uh was uh
was to show you that you could move
assets uh between the main chain and the
layer two and back uh instantly uh by
using an inary and I over the last over
the last four years I have spent so much
time explaining this concept but during
the same time everyone now knows what it
is because if you move your from
ethereum to arbitrum uh and use the
arbitrum bridge it's really fast I'm not
sure it's maybe like 15 minutes but if
you want to move your ether from arbit
arbitrum and back to ethereum uh it
takes a week and the reason for this uh
and this the same with all layer twos
and uh and the reason it works like this
is if there is a huge glitch in arbitrum
the developers have a week to fix it
because that's how long it takes to
transfer funds right so the contagion
takes a week to spread from the layer
two to to the m to the main chain so uh
I I made yeah so I made Sid trip uh to
show that you can move the funds
instantly from the layer two to the
layer one you just have to pay somebody
who has money on B chains and in this
case uh who has money on bll chains
that's ether on arbitr ether on ethereum
is sides shift so you pay a small fee
and in return we will wait the seven
days for you cool um my first uh
swapping experience was actually from
from shapeshift um I'm sure you're
familiar with shapeshift um in 2017 and
for the end user you could just connect
your wallet and swap tokens um but that
was a custodial service at the end of
the day so when s shift launched in
March 2019 you're talking about the
entity holding um ether arbitrum wrapped
ether on arbitrum and ether on ethereum
so is does that does that make Sid
shifts semi C
or um what's kind of like the definition
for the service that you guys are
providing then yeah I mean the uh the
least sexy way to say it is I would say
it's ephemerally custodial which would
mean if I mean you can see something
that is that is basically permanently
custodial would be banal tracing because
we know people do they never take the
money off the exchange no matter how
many times we say not your keys not your
coins people just leave it on the
exchange
so uh so when you're using Sid shift you
send funds in and you receive funds out
it's extremely quick so we're talking
about seconds but in those seconds uh s
is holding both uh what you're sending
in and what you're supposed to receive
so at that point it is very custodial
there are um there are exceptions to
this for
example on bitcoin uh it was on bitcoin
cash we were able to uh to offer Atomic
swaps which is a it's a pretty high-tech
thing but it means that um uh the funds
that you send in are tied uh with the
settlement that you receive um so that
we can deliver the funds instantly
because they're tied together so there
there are things you can do with these
uh like making Atomic swaps but for most
pairs uh it's custodial for seu seconds
got it and sides shift offers swapping
between more than 100 different tokens
so do you guys have essentially a ledger
or a float of each of these tokens then
for that one Split Second that um sides
shift is ephemerally uh custody these
assets yeah so so what we've been able
to do over time uh is is make it so that
the the largest coins we actually hold
them so yeah we hold we just hold a we
have wallets with just massive amounts
of all kinds of tokens uh to be able to
deliver them to you quickly and um
sometimes we hedge sometimes we don't we
prefer not to hedge because we um uh all
the things we list I mean some of them
are silly some of them are Hightech but
uh I think there's something to uh to
all of them we try not to head so much
so yeah we do own this very large amount
of uh of Hans very cool and is that from
shape shifts own treasury or do you guys
have uh Partners capital and liquidity
provision partners that also provide
some of this liquidity yes so uh so this
is this is part of the magic of this
because uh there are a few different uh
there are a few difficult things about
running a swap service it is uh pricing
which is which rate you give to the user
and this is something that uh over the
counter trading desks have figured out
over time and the other one is what you
just touched on which is inventory
management which is very difficult and
inventory management
is what do you do when you have too much
Bitcoin and not enough Litecoin so just
as you guessed we do have some partners
and anybody can sign up to do this you
can just contact me uh who receive
notifications when we have too much of
one thing and not enough the nuring and
they will uh s that issue for um first
small reward love it um so that's really
cool there's you're you're kind of uh
leveraging the best of all worlds you
you're bringing this liquidity to the
table that that Sid shift itself has as
an entity and then you're also tapping
into this uh free market solution where
people can earn possibly better reward
uh exchange rates or fees on LPS because
they're providing um the service for
Supply that the free market requires so
you guys support uh more than a 100
tokens that doesn't necessarily mean 100
chains um so like what are the different
blockchain networks that siid shift
support
and what's kind of your thought process
that you go through when you're deciding
which blockchain network integrate into
the non-custodial exchange yeah so um so
the thought the thought process inly was
very easy it's you start with Bitcoin
and then I just added anything that
looked like it would be cool to learn
about and and that's that's really the
that's really the way I did it so for
chains there are many many different
forms and yes for integr getting them I
have to sit down and read all the
documentation find a wallet and install
it syn a full node and there's a lot of
work and it's um it's actually one of my
favorite things to do it's uh you know I
can just sit there with a with a warm
cup of tea and read some documentation
play around learn um I still really
enjoy that and we have so many chains I
mean I can see them here just looking at
the source
code there's so many CHS we we mentioned
some of them uh for example Cosmos and
Cosmos are many different chains but
they uh they have some small nuances and
there's algor and there is Aptos and
there's cardano and there is Bitcoin and
there's liquid from bloxam if you are
one there is near and just loads and
loads of others we even have terra which
I I don't know if it's going to make it
I don't know how it's still alive it I
think we might have to revive it I'm not
sure at this point the community for
Tera classic or I guess Luna 2 or
whatever um that stuck around is it's
commendable and admirable that people
could get that wrecked and still want to
keep building in an ecosystem yeah it's
um it really is incredible but I I mean
we do have this saying in the industry
don't we where um unicorns they just
they don't go to zero and when Lena was
crashing I remember thinking this will
be the first coin that will go to zero
and it didn't go to zero it's still
around so um one of the kind of key
differentiators for like why would
somebody today use sides shift that I'm
able to walk away with after doing my
cursory research is that sides shift um
requires no kyc no registration and
therefore there is kind of an underlying
focus on user privacy so can you just
share why uh zero registration and user
privacy is such an important tenant for
sides shift yeah I mean it was um the
way I look at it is when I start making
an exchange the uh the use of
registration is the least important
function the most important function is
that you can is that you can send
something in and get a settlement so uh
we just never I just never s necessary
to
collect H to collect that information on
the user and
I it's so much it's so much easier to
explain today because a lot of people
and people coming in this cycle their
first experience with uh with crypto
will be services like sideshift or um or
um defi services so I think and I hope
that the current um you know that the uh
the bad sure for Learning and joining
crypto now in 2024 I hope they just will
never register on make change because
the all the you know so much of the of
the pain and trouble we've had in this
industry has been from exchang exchange
hacks uh the databases of the exchanges
leaking people's private information um
it just it just leads to all kinds of
bad things and this is this is what
we're trying to fix uh to start with
right because we're we're coming from
we're coming from trifire with
experience is um with experiences that
you have very little control over your
own money when you want to do anything
you ask so many questions so so yeah I
mean I will always try
to to stay uh as close as possible I
think it's not even just like what I can
do with my own money at Banks um but
also are they securing my private
information my my pii um I'm in America
I have been I've had my data leaked from
companies that I've shopped at to um
credit monitoring services so people
that should have been protecting my
information they leak that information I
mean even Ledger has fallen victim to
this and that's supposed to be the
secure Hardware wallet for the broader
blockchain space so again not trying to
to knock on any projects here but just
highlighting um why I think what the
approach you took is so important um
we're kind of getting to the end of time
and I have so many more questions so I'm
just going to jump into this um you
mentioned you like to build during Bears
I too like to work during bare markets I
find that during bull runs it's very
hard to pay attention it's almost as if
you work in an office and your desk is
located right next to the water cooler
where you hear all the conversations
always going on 247 so um what was what
what were some metrics like during the
recent bear um what was uh daily volume
transactions like what was user
onboarding like um what was any kind of
of these metrics that you can remember
and then maybe talk about a little bit
of the successes you guys have been
seeing with the move in uh the markets
going up recently um when markets go up
or down exchanges win because those are
the highest trading volume days so with
Bitcoin going up you guys have seen more
volume so I guess yeah just share a
little bit of what were the lessons
learn building Sid shift during um
during bare markets and what are kind of
the things that are getting your team
excited now that we're starting to see
uh bull Trends yeah we um we did really
well during the bare Market because we
we had very steady user grow throughout
the whole thing but towards I mean
towards the end which would be parts of
U 2023 as well it we did get to a point
where I was thinking man I I really wish
it picks up soon and it it was it was a
very it's a very interesting experience
to the whole Beer Market because most of
my team and we're talking developers
customer support everything they have
never seen a bull market so they joined
they joined sft the team in in a be
market so I would write uh I would write
messages to our team like slack Channel
a few times a week uh and I would try to
include something like just so you know
this will go in cycles and if it seems a
bit slow or
um like it's hard to gain users this
kind of thing do not worry because
sometime in the future and I don't know
what it is um you will be completely
overrun by users and everything will be
on fire will be scrambling to make
things work so don't worry just keep
your head on and don't and now I find
myself uh writing messages to the team
Channel which is like do not get caught
up in the Euphoria don't keep your coins
in exchange don't more than 2x leverage
and um I mean I uh anybody on the team
can do whatever they want but I do
imagine there's some meme coin holders
and u f and they and they're fully
enjoying this and as for the metrics we
um we sailed through the uh bare Market
pretty nicely uh just like um I'm used
to the psychos so we we just stayle we
save just like uh just like you spend
you spend inv money in the in the B
market because you don't want to sell
your coins as a buiness we do the same
thing we just slow it down uh so uh we
we did okay through the whole be Market
definitely cutting users and we work
super hard on integrating into Hardware
wallets like we're in we're in the
Treasure wallet you can use Tri chift in
there we're in Edge wallet which is a
really good uh phone wallet by another
OG bitcoiner and we're almost in Ledger
as well so those are the things we
accomplished in the M Market but then of
course since then it's it's like you
expect our volume is up 10x and you know
in a in a matter of uh of months uh and
we have our rainy day fund which is the
treasury it's a treasury which is which
is done on scene you can see it on the
sech website you know went from like
100,000 to like 15 million in our and
and and no time this kind of stuff so uh
no I mean this is full on on on bull
market and we just we spent the whole
time preparing I'm I'm I'm not even
going to be humble about it because it
was so much hard work so um I'm I'm
really happy we're here in this in this
bull market and I hope um I mean I don't
know what the denominating narratives
are going to be the people who are going
to join this cycle I don't know why they
will join but uh I'm hoping for many
things like I'm hoping for I'm hoping
they will join for uh Bitcoin l2s maybe
or um using crypto as payments or maybe
they will join because they're sick and
tired of
inflation this is what I'm hoping for
and uh and obviously our job is uh is to
pay attention and just to offer them
whatever is they want yeah so it's it's
so I I would just say that the employees
that you've been able to bring on at Sid
shift are very lucky who are listening
to this to have had a leader of the
company who who has been through all
these Cycles since 2011 um this is my
third this is my third roundtrip cycle
since I've been in the space full-time
and each time you become more aware of
uh the emotions of how people View and
talk about these Technologies and you
get desensitized into the swings both up
and down and that kind of experience is
um you can't put a price on it so
congratulations to grinding during the
most recent bear and seeing successes
now starting to see successes uh for
folks who are listening to this
sideshift releases awesome content every
week they release an update for what's
happening in the
ecosystem um we didn't really get to
talk about it during this during this
episode but there's also a token um X
aai that also uh allows users to earn uh
fees from the platform and to
participate in this ecosystem so you can
learn more about the the S token and
those reports and I just implore anyone
who's listening to this to go check that
out because this is a team that's
obviously a been grinding since 2019 and
and be continues to grind um Andreas
we're at the top of the hour uh your
time is valuable um it's it's about to
be the working day here in Denver so to
kind of wrap up um what's what's next
who are you interested in connecting
with for sides shift and if someone
wants to reach out to you or to test out
the platform uh what's the best way that
they can do that so for people who want
to try sideshift you can go to sides
shift. and and and give it a shot I know
you're going to love it like you said
you can uh you can swap between a 100
different coins it is super fast I
personally uh make sure that it's
incredibly fast uh because I know uh
especially in this market everybody
wants to settlement really quick but the
most important part is that we're hiring
especially Engineers both front end and
backend we want junior Engineers who are
just entering the space so please uh if
you if you love the code and you want to
join the most awesome industry on on the
planet then just called decid shift.
ajobs and I hope you'll join us Andreas
this was such a fun conversation thank
you for letting me ask you questions
about this space 14 years ago 13 years
ago and um just being candid with your
responses uh like I like I might have
mentioned earlier um I tried to use
sides shift but for Americans we Geo
reference we're Geo um banned but there
is a side CH there is a side product
that Americans can use it's called cify
we did not get a chance to talk about
that but if you're an American listening
to this you still can participate and
use sideshift tools uh so I implore
everyone to go check out sides shift. a
um and Andreas I just want to thank you
again for sharing in your time with us
this was an awesome way to spend an hour
I really appreciate it thank you very
much it's been a pleasure cheers well
what did you think of that episode I
thought it was super interesting to hear
andreas' perspective on how exchanges
have and have not changed really in the
past 10 years I also appreciated Andrea
sharing more about the swapping process
for sideshift and how the company
leverages its own Holdings to make that
swapping process faster and seamless for
the end user and I just really enjoyed
chatting with an OG and such a motivated
Builder who wants to keep seeing what
can and can't be done with these
blockchain networks for a person with
such a long-standing tenure in the
blockchain space it was really inspiring
to hear somebody who's still so excited
to be here building today to keep up to
date with the podcast head over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if you
like the guests that we've had on the
show please consider showing support by
rating and reviewing the show on your
favorite podcasting platform every rate
and review really helps us get our show
in front of more listeners with all that
being said I want to thank you guys so
much for taking the time to listen to
this episode of the smart economy
podcast and we look forward to catching
you next
time
you